
Following empty dirs deleted

Removing include/PA1/
Removing include/PA2J/
Removing include/PA3J/
Removing include/PA4J/
Removing include/PA5J/
Removing src/PA1/


===========================

```bash
$ sudo mkdir /usr/class
$ sudo chown $USER /usr/class
copy tartball into /usr/class
$ cd /usr/class
$ tar -xvf student-dist.tar.gz
add /usr/class/bin to your path (using nix-shell and/or direnv)
$ ln -s /usr/class/cool /root/cool \
```

1. Install packages (If you only intend to use the C++ version, you don't need the jdk).

Equivalent of build-essential on Arch is base-devel, most likely you already have that installed. flex and bison are normally included in base-devel package group as well. jdk-openjdk you'll need to look up in the repos for the latest version. csh was not needed so far.

sudo pacman -S --needed base-devel libxaw
2. Make the /usr/class directory:

sudo mkdir /usr/class
3. Make the directory owned by you:

sudo chown $USER /usr/class
4. Go to /usr/class and download the tarball (you'll need to install wget if you don't have it):

cd /usr/class

wget https://courses.edx.org/asset-v1:StanfordOnline+SOE.YCSCS1+1T2020+type@asset+block@student-dist.tar.gz
5. (optional step) You can just untar the tarball as is without renaming it, it's done just to keep as close to the original instructions as possible.

mv asset-v1:StanfordOnline+SOE.YCSCS1+1T2020+type@asset+block@student-dist.tar.gz student-dist.tar.gz
6. Untar:

tar -xf student-dist.tar.gz
7. Add the bin directory to your $PATH environment variable. If you are using bash, add to your .profile (or .bash_profile, etc. depending on your configuration;

PATH=/usr/class/bin:$PATH
If you're using zsh, you can add this to your ~/.profile or ~/.zprofile

path+=/usr/class/bin/
! Also note that you DON'T need to install spim on your own! It's important to use spim provided in the tarball (in /usr/class/bin). I was trying to use a newer version, but couldn't get it to work with the examples.

=================

FROM ubuntu:18.04

ENV PATH=/usr/class/cs143/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin

RUN set -ex \
    && dpkg --add-architecture i386 \
    && apt update \
    && apt upgrade -y \
    # Install required packages (by pass Java since I have no need)
    && apt install -y build-essential wget curl cmake flex bison csh vim \
        libxaw7-dev libc6-i386 \
    # Install course related tools
    && mkdir -p /usr/class \
    && cd /usr/class \
    && wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/ccr38mhz52gowq9/cs143.tar.gz?dl=1 -O cs143.tar.gz \
    && tar xf cs143.tar.gz \
    && ln -sf /usr/class/cs143/cool /root/cool \
    # Clean cache
    && apt-get clean all \
    && rm -rf \
           /var/cache/debconf/* \
           /var/lib/apt/lists/* \
           /var/log/* \
           /tmp/* \
           /var/tmp/*

=================


FROM i386/ubuntu:16.04

RUN sed -i s@/archive.ubuntu.com/@/mirrors.aliyun.com/@g /etc/apt/sources.list && sed -i s@/security.ubuntu.com/@/mirrors.aliyun.com/@g /etc/apt/sources.list
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y flex bison build-essential libxaw7-dev wget vim tcsh gdb

COPY student-dist.tar.gz /usr/class/

RUN cd /usr/class \
    && tar -xf student-dist.tar.gz \
    && rm student-dist.tar.gz

ENV PATH=/usr/class/cs143/bin:$PATH

COPY grading /root/workspace/grading

WORKDIR /root/workspace

========

https://github.com/yifanyang96/Compiler

https://github.com/afterthat97/cool-compiler

https://github.com/skyzluo/CS143-Compilers-Stanford

================


I just poke around in the assignment. In, the PA2 assignment, the README ask you to "make lexer"

I met this "/x86_64-linux-gnu/libfl.so: undefined reference to `yylex"

Anybody met this problem. I am on the ubuntu 18.04

> open the Makefile and remove the "-lfl" from the "LIB= -lfl" line. This worked for me

if i remove -lfl. then i have cool-lex.cc:1048: undefined reference to `yywrap' errors

> Adding the line `%option noyywrap` to the top of `cool.flex` seems to fix this for me.

More info: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1480138/undefined-reference-to-yylex



=================

You have to run spim with the -file command line argument, like this:

spim -file hello_world.s

However, even when I did that, I received an exception "Instruction references undefined symbol at 0x00400014", a reference to the statement "jal main". I'm not sure how to fix that, so I'm probably going to do the exercises using the given VirtualBox VM, but was hoping to get this to work on Ubuntu 18.04.


posted 2 months ago by rkanagy

I fixed the issue where I was getting a "No such file or directory" error when attempting to run spim. The issue is that i had a 64-bit version of Ubuntu 18.04, but the applications that come with the student distribution for this course are 32-bit applications. Without the the 32-bit libraries installed, these applications cannot run on a 64-bit version of Ubuntu 18.04. I ran the following commands from the command line (terminal):

sudo dpkg --add-architecture i386

sudo apt-get update

sudo apt-get install libc6:i386 libncurses5:i386 libstdc++6:i386

Once I ran those commands and the libraries were installed, I was able to finally run spim with the file hello_world.s, as described in the "Getting started with the VM" page, and after following the instructions in "Installing Directly on Linux".

Also, some of the paths mentioned on these pages are incorrect. I made sure that any folders listed point to "/usr/class", and not to "/usr/class/cs143".

I hope this helps any who is having trouble


posted 2 months ago by rkanagy

Also, FYI, the latest version of spim that is installed using sudo apt install spim is version 8 and is not compatible with the coolc compiler, as it uses the more modern MIPS architecture, whereas the version of spim (version 6.5) that comes with the student distribution is the older obsolete MIPS architecture. That explains any errors you may get when attempting to run the "*.s" files produced by the coolc compiler.

